REGRESSION is a process of predicting a continous value. We can use regression methods to predict a continuous value, such as CO2 Emission, using some other variables(EngineSize and Cylinders).

TYPES of variables:A dependent variable and one or more independent variables.
	The dependent variable can be seen as the "state", "target" or "final goal" we study and try to predict, and the independent variables, also known as explanatory variables, can be seen as the "causes" of those "states".
	The key point in the regression is that our dependent value should be continuous, and cannot be a discreet value. However, the independent variable or variables can be measured on either a categorical or continuous measurement scale.

NOTATION : The independent variables are shown conventionally by x; and the dependent variable is notated by y.



REGRESSION MODEL : We use the historical data of some cars, using one or more of their features, and from that data, make a model. We use 		regression to build such a regression/estimation model. Then the model is used to predict the expected Co2 emission for a new or
	unknown car.
	TYPES OF RM 
		Simple Regression : Simple regression is when one independent variable is used to estimate a dependent variable.
			1. Simple Linear R
			2. Simple Non-Linear R
			For example, predicting Co2emission using the variable of EngineSize.
			Linearity of regression is based on the nature of relationship between independent and dependent variables.
		Multiple Regression : When more than one independent variable is present, the process is called multiple linear regression.
			For example, predicting Co2emission using EngineSize and the number of Cylinders in any given car.
			Again, depending on the relation between dependent and independent variables, it can be either linear or non-linear regression.

APPLICATION OF R: (Essentially, we use regression when we want to estimate a continuous value.)
	1. Sales Forecasting:
		For instance, one of the applications of regression analysis could be in the area of sales forecasting. You can try to predict a salesperson's total yearly sales from independent variables such as age, education, and years of experience.
	2. Satisfaction Analysis:
		It can also be used in the field of psychology, for example, to determine individual satisfaction based on demographic and psychological factors.
	3. Prices Prediction:
		We can use regression analysis to predict the price of a house in an area, based on its size, number of bedrooms, and so on.
	4. Income Prediction:
		We can even use it to predict employment income for independent variables, such as hours of work, education, occupation, sex, age, years of experience, and so on.
	5. Finance, Heallthcare, Retail etc

REGRESSION ALGORITHMS:
1. Linear Regression
2. Bayesian Linear Regression
3. Logistic Regression
4. Ridge Regression
5. Polynomial Regression
6. Quantile Regression
7. Fast Forest Quantile Regression
8. Lasso Regression
9. ElasticNet Regression
10. Principal Component Regression
11. Partial Least Square Regression
12. Support Vector Regression
13. Ordinal Regression
14. Poisson Regression
15. Negative Binomial Regression
16. Quasi-Poisson Regression
17. Cox Regression
18. Randomforest Regression
19. Decision Tree Regression
20. Boosted Decision Tree Regression
21. Stepwise Regression
22. Neural Network Regression	
23. KNN(K-nearestr Neighbours) Regression
Each of them has its own importance and a specific condition to which their application is best suited.
